Christians! to the Paschal Victim offer 
your praises.
The Lamb the sheep redeemeth: 
Christ, sinless, reconcileth sinners to 
the Father.
Death and life contended in that conflict
stupendous: 
The Prince of Life, Who died, reigneth 
alive. 
Speak to us, Mary, what thou sawest 
on your way?
"The tomb of Christ who now liveth: 
and likewise the glory of the Risen.
Angels attesting, the shroud and 
napkin resting.
Christ my hope is arisen: to Galilee He 
goeth before you."
We know that Christ is risen truly from 
the dead: have mercy on us, Thou 
Victor King. Amen. Alleluia.
In that time, two of the disciples of 
Jesus went, the same day, to a town 
which was sixty furlongs from 
Jerusalem, named Emmaus. And they 
talked together of all these things which
had happened. And it came to pass, 
that while they talked and reasoned 
with themselves, Jesus himself also 
drawing near, went with them. But their 
eyes were held, that they should not 
know him. And he said to them: What 
are these discourses that you hold one 
with another as you walk, and are sad? 
And the one of them, whose name was 
Cleophas, answering, said to him: Art 
thou only a stranger to Jerusalem, and 
hast not known the things that have 
been done there in these days? To 
whom he said: What things? And they 
said: Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, 
who was a prophet, mighty in work and 
word before God and all the people; 
And how our chief priests and princes 
delivered him to be condemned to 
death, and crucified him. But we hoped,
that it was he that should have 
redeemed Israel: and now besides all 
this, to day is the third day since these 
things were done. Yea and certain 
women also of our company affrighted 
us, who before it was light, were at the 
sepulchre, And not finding his body, 
came, saying, that they had also seen 
a vision of angels, who say that he is 
alive. And some of our people went to 
the sepulchre, and found it so as the 
women had said, but him they found 
not. Then he said to them: O foolish, 
and slow of heart to believe in all things
which the prophets have spoken. 
Ought not Christ to have suffered these
things, and so to enter into his glory? 
And beginning at Moses and all the 
prophets, he expounded to them in all 
the scriptures, the things that were 
concerning him. And they drew night to 
the town, whither they were going: and 
he made as though he would go 
farther. But they constrained him; 
saying: Stay with us, because it is 
towards evening, and the day is now 
far spent. And he went in with them. 
And it came to pass, whilst he was at 
table with them, he took bread, and 
blessed, and brake, and gave to them. 
And their eyes were opened, and they 
knew him: and he vanished out of their 
sight. And they said one to the other: 
Was not our heart burning within us, 
whilst he spoke in this way, and opened
to us the scriptures? And rising up, the 
same hour, they went back to 
Jerusalem: and they found the eleven 
gathered together, and those that were 
staying with them, Saying: The Lord is 
risen indeed, and hath appeared to 
Simon. And they told what things were 
done in the way; and how they knew 
him in the breaking of the bread.
An angel of the Lord descended from 
heaven, and said to the women: Jesus,
whom you seek He is not here, for he is
risen, as he said. Allelúja.
Accept, O Lord we beseech thee, the 
prayers with the sacrifices of the 
people, and grant that what we have 
begun at these paschal mysteries, may
with thy help be a remedy for life 
eternal. Through our Lord Jesus 
Christ, Thy Son, Who lives and reigns 
with Thee in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
God, forever and ever.
It is truly meet and just, right and for 
our salvation, at all times to praise 
Thee, O Lord, but more gloriously 
especially at this time above others 
when Christ our Pasch was sacrificed. 
For He is the true Lamb Who hath 
taken away the sins of the world: Who 
by dying hath destroyed our death: and
by rising again hath restored us to life. 
And therefore with Angels and 
Archangels, with Thrones and 
Dominations, and with all the hosts of 
the heavenly army, we sing the hymn of
Thy glory, evermore saying:
