At that time, the chief priests planned to
put Lazarus to death also. For on his 
account many of the Jews began to 
leave them and to believe in Jesus. 
Now the next day, the great crowd 
which had come to the feast, when they
heard that Jesus was coming to 
Jerusalem, took the branches of palms 
and went forth to meet Him. And they 
cried out, Hosanna! Blessed is He Who
comes in the name of the Lord, the 
King of Israel! And Jesus found a 
young ass, and sat upon it, as it is 
written, Fear not, daughter of Sion; 
behold, your King comes, sitting upon 
the colt of an ass. These things His 
disciples did not at first understand. But
when Jesus was glorified, then they 
remembered that these things were 
written about Him, and that they had 
done these things to Him. The crowd 
therefore, which was with Him when He
called Lazarus from the tomb and 
raised him from the dead, bore witness 
to Him. And the reason why the crowd 
also went to meet Him was that they 
heard that He had worked this sign. 
The Pharisees therefore said among 
themselves, Do you see that we avail 
nothing? Behold, the entire world has 
gone after Him! Now there were certain
Gentiles among those who had gone 
up to worship on the feast. These 
therefore approached Philip, who was 
from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked 
him, saying, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. 
Philip came and told Andrew; again, 
Andrew and Philip spoke to Jesus. But 
Jesus answered them, The hour has 
come for the Son of Man to be glorified.
Amen, amen, I say to you, unless the 
grain of wheat falls into the ground and 
dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it 
brings forth much fruit. He who loves 
his life, loses it; and he who hates his 
life in this world keeps it unto life 
everlasting. If anyone serves Me, let 
him follow Me; and where I am there 
also shall My servant be. If anyone 
serves Me, My Father will honor him. 
Now my soul is troubled. And what 
shall I say? Father, save Me from this 
hour! No, this is why I came to this 
hour. Father, glorify Your name! There 
came therefore a voice from heaven, I 
have both glorified it, and I will glorify it 
again. Then the crowd which was 
standing round and had heard, said 
that it had thundered. Others said, An 
angel has spoken to Him. Jesus 
answered and said, Not for Me did this 
voice come, but for you. Now is the 
judgment of the world; now will the 
prince of the world be cast out. And I, if 
I be lifted up from the earth, will draw 
all things to Myself. Now He said this 
signifying by what death He was to die. 
The crowd answered Him, We have 
heard from the Law that the Christ 
abides forever. And how can You say, 
‘The Son of Man must be lifted up’? 
Who is this Son of Man? Jesus 
therefore said to them, Yet a little while 
the light is among you. Walk while you 
have the light, that darkness may not 
overtake you. He who walks in the 
darkness does not know where he 
goes. While you have the light, believe 
in the light, that you may become sons 
of light. These things Jesus spoke, and 
He went away and hid Himself from 
them.
