At that time, Jesus and his disciples 
came to a farm called Gethsemani. And
he saith to his disciples: Sit you here, 
while I pray. And he took Peter and 
James and John with him; and he 
began to fear and to be heavy. And he 
saith to them: My soul is sorrowful even
unto death; stay you here, and watch. 
And when he was gone forward a little, 
he fell flat on the ground; and he 
prayed, that if it might be, the hour 
might pass from him. And he saith: 
Abba, Father, all things are possible to 
thee: remove this chalice from me; but 
not what I will, but what thou wilt. And 
he came, and found them sleeping. 
And he saith to Peter: Simon, sleepest 
thou? couldst thou not watch one hour?
Watch ye, and pray that you enter not 
into temptation. The spirit indeed is 
willing, but the flesh is weak. A going 
away again, he prayed, saying the 
same words. And when he returned, he
found them again asleep, - for their 
eyes were heavy, - and they knew not 
what to answer him. And he came the 
third time, and said to them: Sleep ye 
now, and take your rest. It is enough: 
the hour is come: behold the Son of 
man shall be betrayed into the hands of
sinners. Rise up, let us go. Behold, he 
that will betray me is at hand. And while
he was yet speaking, came Judas 
Iscariot, one of the twelve: and with him
a great multitude with swords and 
staves, from the chief priests and the 
scribes and the ancients. And he that 
betrayed him, had given them a sign, 
saying: Whomsoever I shall kiss, that is
he; lay hold on him, and lead him away 
carefully. And when he was come, 
immediately going up to him, he saith: 
Hail, Rabbi; and he kissed him. But 
they laid hands on him, and held him. 
An one of them that stood by, drawing 
a sword, struck a servant of the chief 
priest, and cut off his ear. And Jesus 
answering, said to them: Are you come 
out as to a robber, with swords and 
staves to apprehend me? I was daily 
with you in the temple teaching, and 
you did not lay hands on me. But that 
the scriptures may be fulfilled. Then his
disciples leaving him, all fled away. And
a certain young man followed him, 
having a linen cloth cast about his 
naked body; and they laid hold on him. 
But he, casting off the linen cloth, fled 
from them naked. And they brought 
Jesus to the high priest; and all the 
priests and the scribes and the 
ancients assembled together. And 
Peter followed him from afar off, even 
into the court of the high priest; and he 
sat with the servants at the fire, and 
warmed himself. And the chief priests 
and all the council sought for evidence 
against Jesus, that they might put him 
to death, and found none. For many 
bore false witness against him, and 
their evidences were not agreeing. And 
some rising up, bore false witness 
against him, saying: We heard him say,
I will destroy this temple made with 
hands, and within three days I will build
another not made with hands. And their
witness did not agree. And the high 
priest rising up in the midst, asked 
Jesus, saying: Answer Thou nothing to 
the things that are laid to Thy charge by
these men? But he held his peace, and
answered nothing. Again the high priest
asked him, and said to him: Art Thou 
the Christ the Son of the blessed God? 
And Jesus said to him: I am. And you 
shall see the Son of man sitting on the 
right hand of the power of God, and 
coming with the clouds of heaven. 
Then the high priest rending his 
garments, saith: What need we any 
further witnesses? You have heard the 
blasphemy. What think you? Who all 
condemned him to be guilty of death. 
And some began to spit on him, and to 
cover his face, and to buffet him, and to
say unto him: Prophesy: and the 
servants struck him with the palms of 
their hands. Now when Peter was in 
the court below, there came one of the 
maidservants of the high priest. And 
when she had seen Peter warming 
himself, looking on him she saith: Thou 
also wast with Jesus of Nazareth. But 
he denied, saying: I neither know nor 
understand what you say. And he went
forth before the court; and the cock 
crew. And again a maidservant seeing 
him, began to say to the standers by: 
This is one of them. But he denied 
again. And after a while they that stood 
by said again to Peter: Surely thou art 
one of them; for thou art also a 
Galilean. But he began to curse and to 
swear, saying; I know not this man of 
whom you speak. And immediately the 
cock crew again. And Peter 
remembered the word that Jesus had 
said unto him: Before the cock crow 
twice, thou shalt thrice deny me. And 
he began to weep. And straightway in 
the morning, the chief priests holding a 
consultation with the ancients and the 
scribes and the whole council, binding 
Jesus, led him away, and delivered him
to Pilate. And Pilate asked him: Art 
Thou the king of the Jews? But he 
answering, saith to him: Thou sayest it. 
And the chief priests accused him in 
many things. And Pilate again asked 
him, saying: Answer Thou nothing? 
behold in how many things they accuse
thee. But Jesus still answered nothing; 
so that Pilate wondered. Now on the 
festival day he was wont to release 
unto them one of the prisoners, 
whomsoever they demanded. And 
there was one called Barabbas, who 
was put in prison with some seditious 
men, who in the sedition had 
committed murder. And when the 
multitude was come up, they began to 
desire that he would do, as he had ever
done unto them. And Pilate answered 
them, and said: Will you that I release 
to you the king of the Jews? For he 
knew that the chief priests had 
delivered him up out of envy. But the 
chief priests moved the people, that he 
should rather release Barabbas to 
them. And Pilate again answering, saith
to them: What will you then that I do to 
the king of the Jews? But they again 
cried out: Crucify him. And Pilate saith 
to them: Why, what evil hath he done? 
But they cried out the more: Crucify 
him. And so Pilate being willing to 
satisfy the people, released to them 
Barabbas, and delivered up Jesus, 
when he had scourged him, to be 
crucified. And the soldiers led him away
into the court of the palace, and they 
called together the whole band: And 
they clothe him with purple, and platting
a crown of thorns, they put it upon him. 
And they began to salute him: Hail, 
king of the Jews. And they struck his 
head with a reed: and they did spit on 
him. And bowing their knees, they 
adored him. And after they had mocked
him, they took off the purple from him, 
and put his own garments on him, and 
they led him out to crucify him. And 
they forced one Simon a Cyrenian who 
passed by, coming out of the country, 
the father of Alexander and of Rufus, to
take up his cross. And they bring him 
into the place called Golgotha, which 
being interpreted is, the place of 
Calvary. And they gave him to drink 
wine mingled with myrrh; but he took it 
not. And crucifying him, they divided his
garments, casting lots upon them, what
every man should take. And it was the 
third hour, and they crucified him. And 
the inscription of his cause was written 
over: THE KING OF THE JEWS. And 
with him they crucify two thieves; the 
one on his right hand, and the other on 
his left. And the scripture was fulfilled, 
which saith: And with the wicked he 
was reputed. And they that passed by 
blasphemed him, wagging their heads, 
and saying: Vah, Thou that destroys 
the temple of God, and in three days 
builds it up again; Save Thyself, 
coming down from the cross. In like 
manner also the chief priests mocking, 
said with the scribes one to another: He
saved others; himself he cannot save. 
Let Christ the king of Israel come down 
now from the cross, that we may see 
and believe. And they that were 
crucified with him reviled him. And 
when the sixth hour was come, there 
was darkness over the whole earth until
the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour, 
Jesus cried out with a loud voice, 
saying: Eloi, Eloi, lamma sabacthani? 
Which is, being interpreted, My God, 
my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 
And some of the standers by hearing, 
said: Behold he calls Elias. And one 
running and filling a sponge with 
vinegar, and putting it upon a reed, 
gave him to drink, saying: Stay, let us 
see if Elias come to take him down. 
And Jesus having cried out with a loud 
voice, gave up the ghost. (Here all 
kneel and pause for a few moments.) 
And the veil of the temple was rent in 
two, from the top to the bottom. And the
centurion who stood over against him, 
seeing that crying out in this manner he
had given up the ghost, said: Indeed 
this man was the son of God. And there
were also women looking on afar off: 
among whom was Mary Magdalen, and
Mary the mother of James the less and 
of Joseph, and Salome: Who also 
when he was in Galilee followed him, 
and ministered to him, and many other 
women that came up with him to 
Jerusalem. And when evening was now
come, - because it was the Parasceve, 
that is, the day before the sabbath, - 
Joseph of Arimathea, a noble 
counselor, who was also himself 
looking for the kingdom of God, came 
and went in boldly to Pilate, and 
begged the body of Jesus. But Pilate 
wondered that he should be already 
dead. And sending for the centurion, he
asked him if he were already dead. And
when he had understood it by the 
centurion, he gave the body to Joseph. 
And Joseph buying fine linen, and 
taking him down, wrapped him up in 
the fine linen, and laid him in a 
sepulchre which was hewed out of a 
rock. And he rolled a stone to the door 
of the sepulchre.
