At that time, a certain man was sick, 
Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary
and her sister Martha. Now it was 
Mary who anointed the Lord with 
ointment, and wiped His feet dry with 
her hair, whose brother Lazarus was 
sick. The sisters therefore sent to Him, 
saying, Lord, behold, he whom You 
love is sick. But when Jesus heard this,
He said to them, This sickness is
not unto death, but for the glory of 
God, that through it the Son of God 
may be glorified. Now Jesus loved 
Martha and her sister Mary, and 
Lazarus. So when He heard that he 
was sick, He remained two more days 
in the same place. Then afterwards He
said to His disciples, Let us go
again into Judea. The disciples said to 
Him, Rabbi, just now the Jews were 
seeking to stone You; and do You go 
there again? Jesus answered, Are 
there not twelve hours in the day? If a 
man walks in the day, he does not 
stumble, because he sees the light of 
this world. But if he walks in the night,
he stumbles, because the light is not in
him. These things He spoke, and after 
this He said to them, Lazarus, our 
friend, sleeps. But I go that I may wake
him from sleep. His disciples therefore 
said, Lord, if he sleeps, he will be safe. 
Now Jesus had spoken of his death, 
but they thought He was speaking of 
the repose of sleep. So then Jesus said
to them plainly, Lazarus is dead; and I 
rejoice on your account that I was not 
there, that you may believe. But let us 
go to him. Thomas, who is called the 
Twin, said therefore to his fellow-
disciples, Let us also go, that we may 
die with Him. Jesus therefore came 
and found him already four days in the 
tomb. Now Bethany was close to 
Jerusalem, some fifteen stadia distant. 
And many of the Jews had come to 
Martha and Mary, to comfort them on 
account of their brother. When, 
therefore, Martha heard that Jesus was
coming, she went to meet Him. But 
Mary remained at home. Martha 
therefore said to Jesus, Lord, if Thou 
had been here my brother would not 
have died. But even now I know that 
whatever Thou shall ask of God, God 
will give it to Thee. Jesus said to her, 
Your brother shall rise. Martha said to 
Him, I know that he will rise at the 
resurrection, on the last day. Jesus said
to her, I am the resurrection and the 
life; he who believes in Me, even if he 
die, shall live; and whoever lives and 
believes in Me, shall never die. Do you 
believe this? She said to Him, ‘Yes, 
Lord, I believe that Thou art the Christ, 
the Son of God, Who have come into 
the world. And when she had said this, 
she went away and quietly called Mary 
her sister, saying, The Master is here 
and calls you. As soon as she heard
this, she rose quickly and came to 
Him, for Jesus had not yet come into 
the village, but was still at the place 
where Martha had met Him. When, 
therefore, the Jews who were with her 
in the house and were comforting her, 
saw Mary rise up quickly and go out,
they followed her, saying, She is going 
to the tomb to weep there. When, 
therefore, Mary came where Jesus 
was, and saw Him, she fell at His feet, 
and said to him, Lord, if Thou had 
been her, my brother would not have 
died. When, therefore, Jesus saw her
weeping, and the Jews who had come 
with her weeping, He groaned in spirit 
and was troubled, and said, Where 
have you laid him? They said to Him, 
Lord, come and see. And Jesus wept. 
The Jews therefore said, See how He 
loved him. But some of them said, 
Could not He Who opened the eyes of 
the blind, have caused that this man
should not die? Jesus therefore, again
groaning in Himself, came to the tomb.
Now it was a cave and a stone was 
laid against it. Jesus said, Take away 
the stone. Martha, the sister of him who
was dead, said to Him, Lord, by this 
time he is already decayed, for he is 
dead four days. Jesus said to her, Have
I not told you that if you believe
you shall behold the glory of God?
They therefore removed the stone. And
Jesus, raising His eyes, said, Father, I 
give Thee thanks that Thou hast heard 
Me. Yet I knew that Thou always hear 
Me; but because of the people who 
stand round, I spoke, that they may 
believe that Thou have sent Me. When 
He had said this, He cried out with a 
loud voice, Lazarus, come forth! And at
once he who had been dead came 
forth, bound feet and hands with 
bandages, and his face was tied up 
with a cloth. Jesus said to them, 
Unbind him, and let him go. Many 
therefore of the Jews who had come to 
Mary, and had seen what He did, 
believed in Him.
