O God, from whom Judas received the 
punishment of his guilt, and the thief 
the reward of his confession: grant unto
us the full fruit of Thy clemency; that 
even as in His Passion, our Lord Jesus 
Christ gave to each a retribution 
according to his merits, so having taken
away our old sins, He may bestow 
upon us the grace of His Resurrection. 
Who lives and reigns with God the 
Father, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, 
one God, world without end.
<b>R.</b> Amen
<br>
In those days the Lord said to Moses 
and Aaron in the land of Egypt: This 
month shall be to you the beginning of 
months: it shall be the first in the 
months of the year. Speak ye to the 
whole assembly of the children of 
Israel, and say to them: On the tenth 
day fo this month let every man take a 
lamb by their families and houses. But 
if the number be less than may suffice 
to eat the lamb, he shall take unto him 
his neighbor that joineth to his house, 
according to the number of souls which
may be enough to eat the lamb. And it 
shall be a lamb without blemish, a 
male, of one year: according to which 
rite also you shall take a kid. And you 
shall keep it until the fourteenth day of 
this month: and the whole multitude of 
the children of Israel shall sacrifice it in 
the evening. And they shall take of 
blood thereof, and put it upon both the 
side posts, and on the upper door posts
of the houses, wherein they shall eat it. 
And they shall eat the flesh that night 
roasted at the fire: and unleavened 
bread with wild lettuce. You shall not 
eat thereof any thing raw, nor boiled in 
water, but only roasted at the fire. You 
shall eat the head with the feet and 
entrails thereof. Neither shall there 
remain any thing of it until morning. If 
there be an thing left, you shall burn it 
with fire. And thus you shall eat it: You 
shall gird your reins, and you shall have
shæs on your feet, holding staves in 
your hands, and you shall eat in haste; 
for it is the Phase that is the Passage 
of the Lord.
<br>
Deliver me, O Lord, from the evil man: 
rescue me from the unjust man. Who 
have devised iniquities in their hearts: 
all the day long they designed battles.
They have sharpened their tongues like
a serpent; the venom of asps is under 
their lips. Keep me, O Lord, from the 
hand of the wicked: and from unjust 
men deliver me. Who have proposed 
to supplant my steps. The proud have 
hidden a net for me. And they have 
stretched out cords for a snare for my 
feet; they have laid for me a stumbling-
block by the wayside. I said to the 
Lord: Thou art my God. Hear, O Lord, 
the voice of my supplication. O Lord, 
Lord, the strength of my salvation: 
overshadow my head in the day of 
battle. Give me not up from my desire 
to the wicked: they have plotted against
me. Do not Thou forsake me, lest at 
any time they should triumph. The 
head of them compassing me about: 
the labor of their lips shall overwhelm 
them. But the just shall give glory to 
Thy Name: and the upright shall dwell 
with Thy countenance.
