At that time, Jesus said to His 
disciples: When you shall see the 
abomination of desolation which was 
spoken of by Daniel the prophet, 
standing in the holy place (he that 
reads, let him understand:) then they 
that are in Judea, let them flee to the 
mountains and he that is on the 
housetop, let him not come down to 
take anything out of his house and he 
that is in the field, let him not go back 
to take his coat. And woe to them that 
are with child and that give suck, in 
those days. But pray that your flight be 
not in the winter, or on the sabbath: for 
there shall be then great tribulation, 
such as hath not been found from the 
beginning of the world until now, 
neither shall be: and unless those days
had been shortened, no flesh should 
be saved; but for the sake of the elect, 
those days shall be shortened. Then if 
any man shall say to you: Lo, here is 
Christ, or there; do not believe him: for
there shall arise false Christs, and false
prophets, and shall show great signs 
and wonders, insomuch as to deceive 
(if possible) even the elect. Behold I 
have told it to you beforehand. If 
therefore they shall say to you: Behold,
he is in the desert, go ye not out. 
Behold He is in the closets, believe it 
not. For as lightning cometh out of the 
east, and appeareth even into the 
west, so shall also the coming of the 
Son of Man be: Wheresoever the body 
shall be, there shall the eagles also be 
gathered together. And immediately 
after the tribulation of those days, the 
sun shall be darkened, and the moon 
shall not give her light, and the stars 
shall fall from the heaven, and the 
powers of heaven shall be moved and 
then shall appear the sign of the Son of
Man in heaven, and then shall all the 
tribes of the earth mourn; and they 
shall see the Son of Man coming in the
clouds of heaven with much power and
majesty. And He shall send His angels 
with a trumpet and a loud voice, and 
they shall gather together His elect 
from the four winds, from the farthest 
parts of the heavens to the utmost 
bounds of them. And from the fig tree 
learn a parable: when the branch 
thereof is now tender, and the leaves 
come forth, you know that summer is 
nigh. So you also, when you shall see 
all these things, know ye that ìt is nigh 
at the doors. Amen I say to you that 
this generation shall not pass till all 
these things be done. Heaven and 
earth shall pass away, but My words 
shall not pass away.
