At that time, Jesus came, accordingly, 
to a town of Samaria called Sichar, 
near the field that Jacob gave to his 
son Joseph. Now Jacob’s well was 
there. Jesus therefore, wearied as He 
was from the journey, was sitting at the 
well. It was about the sixth hour. There 
came a Samaritan woman to draw 
water. Jesus said to her, Give Me to 
drink; for His disciples had gone away 
into the town to buy food. The 
Samaritan woman therefore said to 
Him, How is it that You, although You 
are a Jew, ask drink of me, who am a 
Samaritan woman? For Jews do not 
associate with Samaritans. Jesus 
answered and said to her, If you did 
know the gift of God, and Who it is Who
says to you, ‘Give Me to drink,’ you, 
perhaps, would have asked of Him, and
He would have given you living water. 
The woman said to Him, Sir, You have 
nothing to draw with, and the well is 
deep. Whence then have You living 
water? Are You greater than our father 
Jacob who gave us the well, and drank 
from it, himself, and his sons, and his 
flocks? In answer Jesus said to her, 
Everyone who drinks of this water will 
thirst again. He, however, who drinks of
the water that I will give him shall never
thirst; but the water that I will give him 
shall become in him a fountain of water,
springing up unto life everlasting. The 
woman said to Him, Sir, give me this 
water that I may not thirst, or come 
here to draw. Jesus said to her, Go, call
your husband and come here. The 
woman answered and said, I have no 
husband. Jesus said to her: Thou hast 
said well, ‘I have no husband.’ for you 
have had five husbands, and he whom 
you now have is not your husband. In 
this you have spoken truly. The woman 
said to Him, Sir, I see that You are a 
prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this 
mountain, but You say that at 
Jerusalem is the place where one 
ought to worship. Jesus said to her, 
Woman, believe Me, the hour is coming
when neither on this mountain nor in 
Jerusalem will you worship the Father. 
You worship what you do not know; we 
worship what we know, for salvation is 
from the Jews. But the hour is coming, 
and is now here, when the true 
worshipers will worship the Father in 
spirit and in truth. For the Father also 
seeks such to worship Him. God is 
spirit, and they who worship Him must 
worship in spirit and in truth. The 
woman said to Him, I know that 
Messias is coming Who is called Christ,
and when He comes He will tell us all 
things. Jesus said to her, I Who speak 
with you am He. And at this point His 
disciples came; and they wondered that
He was speaking with a woman. Yet no
one said, What do You seek? or, Why 
do You speak with her? The woman 
therefore left her water-jar and went 
away into the town, and said to the 
people, Come and see a man who has 
told me all that I have ever done. Can 
He be the Christ? They went forth from 
the town and came to meet Him. 
Meanwhile, His disciples besought 
Him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But He said to 
them, I have food to eat of which you 
do not know. The disciples therefore 
said to one another, Has someone 
brought Him something to eat? Jesus 
said to them, My food is to do the will of
Him Who sent Me, to accomplish His 
work. Do you not say, ‘There are yet 
four months, and then comes the 
harvest’? Well, I say to you, lift up your 
eyes and behold that the fields are 
already white for the harvest. And he 
who reaps receives a wage, and 
gathers fruit unto life everlasting, so 
that the sower and the reaper may 
rejoice together. For herein is the 
proverb true, ‘One sows, another 
reaps.’ I have sent you to reap that on 
which you have not labored. Others 
have labored, and you have entered 
into their labors. Now many of the 
Samaritans of that town believed in 
Him because of the word of the woman
who bore witness, He told me all that I 
have ever done. When, therefore, the 
Samaritans had come to Him, they 
besought Him to stay there; and He 
stayed two days. And far more believed
because of His word. And they said to 
the woman, We no longer believe 
because of what you have said, for we 
have heard for ourselves and we know 
that this is in truth the Savior of the 
world.
