In those days, Saul, as yet breathing 
out threatenings and slaughter against 
the disciples of the Lord, went to the 
high priest, and asked of him letters to 
Damascus, to the synagogues; that if 
he found any men and women of this 
way, he might bring them bound to 
Jerusalem. And as he went on his 
journey, it came to pass that he drew 
nigh to Damascus: and suddenly a light
from heaven shined round about him. 
And falling on the ground he heard a 
voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why 
persecutest thou Me? Who said, Who 
art Thou, Lord? And He said, I am 
Jesus of Nazareth, Whom thou 
persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick 
against the goad. And he trembling and
astonished, said, Lord, what wilt Thou 
have me to do? And the Lord said to 
him, Arise, and go into the city, and 
there it shall be told thee what thou 
must do. Now the men who went in 
company with him stood amazed, 
hearing indeed a voice, but seeing no 
man. And Saul arose from the ground, 
and when his eyes were opened, he 
saw nothing. But they leading him by 
the hand, brought him to Damascus. 
And he was there three days without 
sight; and he did neither eat nor drink. 
Now there was a certain disciple at 
Damascus, named Ananias and the 
Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias. 
And he said, Behold I am here, Lord. 
And the Lord said to him, Arise and go 
into the street that is called Strait, and 
seek in the house of Judas one named 
Saul of Tarsus; for behold he prayeth. 
(And he saw a man, named Ananias, 
coming in, and putting his hands upon 
him, that he might recover his sight.) 
But Ananias answered, Lord, I have 
heard by many of this man, how much 
evil he hath done to thy saints in 
Jerusalem: and here he hath authority 
from the chief priests to bind all that 
invoke Thy name. And the Lord said to 
him, Go thy way; for this man is to Me 
a vessel of election, to carry My name 
before the gentiles, and kings, and the 
children of Israel. For I will show him 
how great things he must suffer for My 
name's sake. And Ananias went his 
way, and entered into the house, and 
laying his hands upon him he said, 
Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus hath sent 
me, He that appeared to thee in the 
way as thou camest, that thou mayest 
receive thy sight, and be filled with the 
Holy Ghost. And immediately there fell 
from his eyes as it were scales, and he
received his sight; and rising up he was
baptized. And when he had taken 
meat, he was strengthened. And he 
was with the disciples that were at 
Damascus for some days. And 
immediately he preached Jesus in the 
synagogues, that He !s the Son of 
God. And all that heard him were 
astonished, and said, Is not this he 
who persecuted in Jerusalem those 
who called upon this name: and came 
hither for that intent, that he might carry
them bound to the chief priest? But 
Saul increased much more in strength, 
and confounded the Jews who dwelt in 
Damascus, affirming that this is the 
Christ.
