In those days, Rebecca said to her son 
Jacob: I heard your father tell your 
brother Esau: Bring me some game; 
prepare some savory food for me to 
eat, and then I will bless you in the 
sight of the Lord before I die. Now, my 
son, do what I tell you. Go to the flock 
and bring me two choice kids that I may
make of them savory food for
your father, such as he likes. Then 
bring it to your father to eat, that he 
may bless you before he dies. Jacob 
said to his mother Rebecca: But Esau 
my brother is a hairy man, while I am 
smooth. If my father touches me, it will 
seem to him that I am mocking him. 
Thus I shall bring a curse on myself 
instead of a blessing. His mother
replied: Let the curse fall on me, my 
son! Do but listen to me; go, get them 
for me. He went, selected them, and 
brought them to his mother, who 
prepared savory food such as his father
liked. Then Rebecca took the best 
clothes of her elder son Esau,
which she had in the house, and put 
them on her younger son Jacob. She 
put the skins of the kids on his hands 
and over the smooth parts of his neck. 
Then she gave her son Jacob the 
savory food and bread she had 
prepared. He went to his father and 
said: Father! He answered: Here I am.
Who are you, my son? And Jacob said 
to his father: I am Esau, your firstborn. I
have done as you told me; sit up, 
please! Eat again of my game, that 
you may bless me. Isaac replied: How 
did you find it so quickly, my son? He 
answered: The Lord your God let me 
come upon it. Then Isaac said to 
Jacob: Come close that I may touch
you, my son, to know whether you are
really my son Esau or not. Jacob went 
close to his father. Isaac touched him 
and said: The voice is the voice of 
Jacob, but the hands are the hands of 
Esau. - He did not recognize him 
because his hands were hairy like 
those of his brother Esau; so he
blessed him. - Isaac said: Are you 
really my son Esau? Jacob answered: 
Yes, I am. Isaac continued: Set your 
game near me, my son, that I may eat 
it, and bless you. He set it before him 
and he ate of it, and he brought him 
some wine, which he drank. Then his
father Isaac said to him: Come close 
and kiss me, my son. He came close 
and kissed him. When he smelled the 
fragrance of his garments, he blessed 
him and said: The fragrance of my son 
is like the fragrance of a field which the 
Lord has blessed! God give you dew 
from heaven, and fruitfulness of the 
earth, abundance of grain and wine. 
Let nations serve you, peoples bow 
down to you. Be master of your 
brothers; may your mother’s sons bow 
down to you. Cursed be those who 
curse you, blessed be those who bless 
you. Isaac had pronounced the 
blessing and Jacob had just left his
father’s presence, when his brother 
Esau returned from hunting. He also 
prepared savory food and brought it to 
his father, saying: Sit up, father, and eat
of your son’s game, that you may bless
me. His father Isaac said to him: Who 
are you? He answered: I am Esau, 
your firstborn son. Isaac was greatly 
disturbed, and asked: Who
was it, then, that hunted game and 
brought it to me? Before you came I ate
heartily and then blessed him; and he 
shall be blessed. On hearing his 
father’s words, Esau uttered a very 
loud and bitter cry, and said to him:
Father, bless me too. But he 
answered: Your brother came 
deceitfully and received your blessing. 
Then he said: Must he, true to his 
name Jacob, supplant me now a
second time? He took my birthright and
now he has taken my blessing. He 
added: Have you not reserved a 
blessing for me? Isaac answered 
Esau: I have appointed him your lord, 
and have given him all his brothers as 
servants. I have enriched him with 
grain and wine; what then can I do for
you, my son? But Esau said to his 
father: Have you only one blessing, 
father? Bless me also, my father. And 
Esau wept aloud. His father Isaac 
answered him: Without the fruitfulness 
of the earth shall your dwelling be; 
without the dew of the heavens above.
