At that time, Jesus spoke to the 
Pharisees and Scribes this parable: A 
certain man had two sons. And the 
younger of them said to his father: 
Father, give me the share of the
property that falls to me. And he divided
his means between them. And not 
many days later, the younger son 
gathered up all his wealth, and took his 
journey into a far country; and there he 
squandered his fortune in loose living. 
And after he had spent all, there came 
a grievous famine over that country, 
and he began himself to suffer want. 
And he went and joined one of the 
citizens of that country, who sent him to
his farm to feed swine. And he longed 
to fill himself with the pods that the 
swine were eating, but no one offered 
to give them to him. But when he came 
to himself, he said: How many hired 
men in my father’s house have bread in
abundance, while I am perishing here 
with hunger! I will get up and go to my 
father, and will say to him, Father, I 
have sinned against heaven and 
before you. I am no longer worthy to be
called your son; make me as one of 
your hired men. And he arose and went
to his father. But while he was yet a 
long way off, his father saw him and 
was moved with compassion, and ran 
and fell upon his neck and kissed him. 
And the son said to him: Father, I have 
sinned against heaven and before you. 
I am no longer worthy to be called your
son. But the father said to his servants: 
Fetch quickly the best robe and put it 
on him, and give him a ring for his 
finger and sandals for his feet; and 
bring out the fattened calf and kill it, 
and let us eat and make merry; 
because this my son was dead, and 
has come to life again; he was lost, and
is found. And they began to make 
merry. Now his elder son was in the 
field; and as he came and drew near to 
the house, he heard music and 
dancing. And calling one of the 
servants he inquired what this meant. 
And he said to him: Your brother has 
come, and your father has killed the 
fattened calf, because he has got him 
back safe. But he was angered and
would not go in. His father, therefore,
came out and began to entreat him. But
he answered and said to his father: 
Behold, these many years I have been 
serving you, and have never 
transgressed one of your commands; 
and yet you have never given me a kid 
that I might make merry with my 
friends. But when this your son comes, 
who has devoured his means with 
harlots, you have killed for him the 
fattened calf. But he said to him: Son, 
you are always with me, and all that is 
mine is yours; but we were bound to 
make merry and rejoice, for this your 
brother was dead, and has come to life;
he was lost, and is found.
