Sir, give me Thy blessing.
C. May the Lord be in thy heart and on thy 
lips, that thou mayest worthily and fittingly 
proclaim His Paschal praise: in the name of 
the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
R. Amen.
<br>
Let the angelic choirs of Heaven now 
rejoice; let the divine Mysteries rejoice; and 
let the trumpet of salvation sound forth the 
victory of so great a King. Let the earth also
rejoice, made radiant by such splendor; 
and, enlightened with the brightness of the 
eternal King, let it know that the darkness of
the whole world is scattered. Let our mother
the Church also rejoice, adorned with the 
brightness of so great a light; and let this 
temple resound with the loud acclamations 
of the people. Wherefore I beseech you, 
most beloved brethren, who are here 
present in the wondrous brightness of this 
holy light, to invoke with me the mercy of 
almighty God. That He who has vouchsafed
to admit me among the Levites, without any
merits of mine, would pour forth the 
brightness of His light upon me, and enable 
me to perfect the praise of this wax candle. 
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, His Son, 
Who with Him lives and reigns in the unity 
of the Holy Spirit, God, forever and ever. 
<br>
R. Amen.
V. The Lord be with you.
R. And with thy spirit.
V. Lift up thy hearts.
R. We have them lifted up to the Lord.
V. Let us give thanks to the Lord our God..
R. It is meet and just.
It is truly meet and right to proclaim with all 
our heart and all the affection of our mind, 
and with the ministry of our voices, the 
invisible God, the Father almighty, and His 
only-begotten Son our Lord Jesus Christ, 
who repaid for us to His eternal Father the 
debt of Adam, and by the merciful shedding 
of His Blood, cancelled the debt incurred by
original sin. For this is the Paschal Festival; 
in which that true Lamb is slain, with Whose
Blood the doorposts of the faithful are 
consecrated. 
<br>
This is the night in which Thou didst 
formerly cause our forefathers, the children 
of Israel, when brought out of Egypt, to 
pass through the Red Sea with dry foot. 
This, therefore, is the night which dissipated
the darkness of sinners by the light of the 
pillar. This is the night which at this time 
throughout the world restores to grace and 
unites in sanctity those that believe in 
Christ, and are separated from the vices of 
the world and the darkness of sinners. This 
is the night in which, destroying the chains 
of death, Christ arose victorious from the 
grave. For it would have profited us nothing 
to have been born, unless redemption had 
also been bestowed upon us. 
<br>
O wondrous condescension of Thy mercy 
towards us! O inestimable affection of love: 
that Thou mightest redeem a slave, Thou 
didst deliver up Thy Son! O truly needful sin
of Adam, which was blotted out by the 
death of Christ! O happy fault, that merited 
to possess such and so great a Redeemer! 
O truly blessed night, which alone deserved
to know the time and hour when Christ rose
again from hell! This is the night of which it 
is written: And the night shall be as clear as 
the day; and the night is my light in my 
delights. Therefore the hallowing of this 
night puts to flight all wickedness, cleanses 
sins, and restores innocence to the fallen, 
and gladness to the sorrowful. It drives forth
hatreds, it prepares concord, and brings 
down haughtiness.
<br>
Wherefore, in this sacred night, receive, O 
holy Father, the evening sacrifice of this 
incense, which holy Church renders to Thee
by the hands of Thy ministers in the solemn
offering of this wax candle, made out the 
work of bees. Now also we know the 
praises of this pillar, which the shining fire 
enkindles to the honor of God. Which fire, 
although divided into parts, suffers no loss 
from its light being borrowed. For it is 
nourished by the melting wax, which the 
mother bee produced for the substance of 
this precious light. O truly blessed night, 
which plundered the Egyptians and 
enriched the Hebrews! A night in which 
heavenly things are united to those of earth,
and things divine to those which are of man.
We pray Thee, therefore, O Lord, that this 
wax candle hallowed in honor of Thy Name,
may continue to burn to dissipate the 
darkness of this night. And being accepted 
as a sweet savor, may be united with the 
heavenly lights. Let the morning star find its 
flame alight. That star, I mean, which knows
no setting. He Who returning from hell, 
serenely shone forth upon mankind. 
<br>
We beseech Thee therefore, O Lord, that 
Thou wouldst grant peaceful times during 
this Paschal Festival, and vouchsafe to rule,
govern, and keep with Thy constant 
protection us Thy servants, and all the 
clergy, and the devout people, together with
our most holy Father, Pope <b>N.</b>, and our 
Bishop <b>N.</b>. Have regard, also, for those who
reign over us, and, grant them Thine 
ineffable kindness and mercy, direct their 
thoughts in justice and peace, that from 
their earthy toil, they may come to their 
heavenly reward with all Thy people. 
Through the same Jesus Christ, Thy Son, 
our Lord, Who lives and reigns with Thee in 
the unity of the Holy Spirit, God, forever and
ever. R. Amen.
