<b>Genesis 1: 1-31; 2. 1-2<b>
In the beginning, God created heaven and 
earth. And the earth was void and empty, 
and darkness was upon the face of the 
deep: and the Spirit of God moved over the 
water. And God said: Be light made. And 
light was made. And God saw the light that 
it was good: and He divided the light from 
the darkness. And He called the light Day, 
and the darkness Night: and there was 
evening and morning, one day. And God 
said: Let there be a firmament made amidst
the waters: and let it divide the waters from 
the waters. And God made a firmament, 
and divided the waters that were under the 
firmament from those that were above the 
firmament. And it was so. And God called 
the firmament Heaven: and the evening and
morning were the second day. God also 
said: Let the waters that are under the 
heaven be gathered together into one 
place; and let the dry land appear. And it 
was so done. And God called the dry land 
Earth: and the gathering together of the 
waters He called Seas. And God saw that it 
was good. And He said: Let the earth bring 
forth his green herb, after its kind, which 
may have seed in itself upon the earth. And 
it was so done. And the earth brought forth 
the green herb, and such as tieldeth seed 
according to its kind. And God saw that it 
was good. And the evening and morning 
were the third day. And God said: Let there 
be lights made in the firmament of heaven 
to divide the day and the night, and let them
be for signs, and for seasons, and for days 
and years.: to shine in the firmament of 
heaven. and to give light to the earth. And it 
was so done. And God made two great 
lights: a greater light to rule the day; and a 
lesser light to rule the night: and the stars. 
And He set them in the firmament of 
heaven, to shine upon the earth, and to rule
the day and the night, and to divide the 
earth, and to rule the day and the night, and
to divide the light and the darkness. And 
God saw that it was good. And the evening 
and morning were the fourth day. God also 
said: Let het waters bring forth the creeping 
creature having life, and the fowl that may 
fly over the earth under the firmament of 
heaven. And God created the great whales, 
and every living thing and moving creature 
which the waters brought forth, according to
their kinds, and every winged fowl 
according to its kind. And God saw that it 
was good. And He blessed them, saying: 
Increase and multiply, and fill the waters of 
the sea: and let the birds be multiplied upon
the earth. And the evening and the morning 
were the fifth day. And God said: Let the 
earth bring forth the living creature in its 
kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts
of the earth according to their kinds. And it 
was so done. And God made the beasts of 
the earth according to their kinds, and 
cattle, and every thing and every thing that 
creepeth on the earth after its kind. And 
God saw that it was good. And He said: Let 
us make man to His own image and 
likeness: and let him have dominion over 
the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of the 
air, and the beasts, and the whole earth, 
and every creeping creature that moveth 
upon the earth. And God created man to 
His own image: to the image of God He 
created him, male and female He created 
them. And God blessed them, saying: 
Increase and multiply, and fill the earth, and
subdue it, and rule over the fishes of the 
sea, and the fowls of the air, and all living 
creatures that move upon the earth. And 
God said: Behold, I have given you every 
herb-bearing seed upon the earth, and all 
trees that have in themselves seed of their 
own kind to be your meat: and to all the 
beasts of the earth, and to every fowl of the 
air, and to all that move upon the earth, and
wherein there is life, that they may have to 
feed upon. And it was so done. And God 
saw all the things that He had made, and 
they were very good. And the evening and 
morning were the sixth day. So the heavens
and the earth were finished, and all the 
furniture of them. And on the seventh day 
God ended His work which He had made: 
and He rested on the seventh day from all 
His work which He had done.
<br>
Let us pray.
V. Let us kneel.
R. Arise.
O God, who hast wonderfully created man, 
and more wonderfully restored him: grant 
us, we beseech Thee, to stand firm with 
strong minds against the allurements of sin,
that we may deserve to arrive at everlasting
joys. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, Thy 
Son, Who lives and reigns with Thee in the 
unity of the Holy Spirit, God, forever and 
ever.
R. Amen.
<br>
<b>Exodus 14: 24-31; 15: 1</b>
In those days, it came to pass in the 
morning watch, and behold the Lord looking
upon the Egyptian army through the pillar of
fire, and of the cloud, slew their host: and 
overthrew the wheels of the chariots, and 
they were carried into the deep. And the 
Egyptians said: Let us flee from Israel: for 
the Lord fighteth for them against us. And 
the Lord said to Moses: Stretch forth thy 
hand over the sea, that the waters may com
again upon the Egyptians, upon their 
chariots and horsemen. And when Moses 
had stretched forth his hand towards the 
sea, it returned at the first break of day to 
the former place: and as the Egyptians 
were fleeing away the waters came upon 
them, and the Lord shut them up in the 
middle of the waves. And the waters 
returned, and covered the chariots and the 
horsemen of all the army of Pharao, who 
had come into the sea after them: neither 
did there so much as one of them remain. 
But the children of Israel marched through 
the midst of the sea upon dry land, and the 
waters were to them as a wall on the right 
hand and the left: and the Lord delivered 
Israel on that day out of the hand of the 
Egyptians. And they saw the Egyptians 
dead upon the sea shore, and the mighty 
hand of the Lord had used against them: 
and the people feared the Lord, and they 
believed the Lord, and Moses His servant. 
Then Moses and the children of Israel sung 
this canticle to the Lord, and said:
<br>
<b>Exodus 15: 1-2</b>
Let us sing to the Lord, for He is gloriously 
honored: the horse and the rider He hath 
thrown into the sea: He has become my 
Helper and Protector unto salvation.
<br>
V. He is my God, and I will honor Him: the 
God of my father, and I will extol Him.
V. He is the Lord that destroys wars: the 
Lord is His Name.
<br>
Let us pray.
V. Let us kneel.
R. Arise.
O God, Whose ancient miracles we 
perceive to shine also in our times: then 
Thou didst gather one people, delivering 
them from the Egyptian persecution by the 
power of Thy right hand: now Thou dost 
operate for the salvation of the Gentiles,by 
the water of regeneration: grant that all the 
nations of the world may become the 
children of Abraham, and partake of the 
dignity of the people of Israel.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, Thy Son, 
Who lives and reigns with Thee in the unity 
of the Holy Spirit, God, forever and ever.
<br>
R. Amen
<br>
<b>Isaias 4: 2-6</b>
In that day the bud of the Lord shall be in 
magnificence and glory, and the fruit of the 
earth shall be high, and a great joy to them 
that shall have escaped of Israel. And it 
shall come to pass, that every one that shall
be left in Sion, and that shall remain in 
Jerusalem, shall be called holy, every one 
that is written in life in Jerusalem. If the Lord
shall wash away the filth of the daughters of
Sion, and shall wash away the blood of 
Jerusalem out of the midst thereof, by the 
spirit of judgment, and by the spirit of 
burning. And the Lord will create upon every
place of mount Sion, and where he is called
upon, a cloud by day, and a smoke and the 
brightness of a flaming fire in the night: for 
over all the glory shall be a protection. And 
there shall be a tabernacle for a shade in 
the daytime from the heat, and for a 
security and covert from the whirlwind, and 
from rain.
<br>
<b>Isaias 5: 1, 2, 7<b>
A vineyard was made on a hill in a fruitful 
place by my beloved.
V. And he fenced it in, and made a ditch 
around it, and planted it with the Sorec vine,
and built a tower in the midst thereof.
V. And set up a winepress therein: for the 
vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of
Israel.
Let us pray.
V. Let us kneel.
R. Arise.
O God, Who hast declared to all the 
children of Thy Church by the voice of the 
holy prophets, that in all places of Thine 
empire, Thou art the Sower of good seed, 
and the Cultivator of chosen branches: 
grant to Thy people who are called by Thee 
by the name of vines and harvest field, that 
they may root out all thorns and briers, and 
produce good fruit in abundance.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, Thy Son, 
Who lives and reigns with Thee in the unity 
of the Holy Spirit, God, forever and ever..
<br>
R. Amen.
<br>
<b>Deuteronomy. 31: 22-30</b>
In those days: Moses therefore wrote the 
canticle, and taught it to the children of 
Israel. And the Lord commanded Josue the 
son of Nun, and said: Take courage, and be
valiant: for thou shalt bring the children of 
Israel into the land which I have promised, 
and I will be with thee. Therefore after 
Moses had wrote the words of this law in a 
volume, and finished it: he commanded the 
Levites, who carried the ark of the covenant
of the Lord, saying: Take this book, and put 
it in the side of the ark of the covenant of 
the Lord your God: that it may be there for a
testimony against thee. For I know thy 
obstinacy, and thy most stiff neck. While I 
am yet living, and going in with you, you 
have always been rebellious against the 
Lord: how much more when I shall be 
dead? Gather unto me all the ancients of 
your tribes, and your doctors, and I will 
speak these words in their hearing, and will 
call heaven and earth to witness against 
them. For I know that, after my death, you 
will do wickedly, and will quickly turn aside 
form the way that I have commanded you: 
and evils shall come upon you in the latter 
times, when you shall do evil in the sight of 
the Lord, to provoke him by the works of 
your hands. Moses therefore spoke, in the 
hearing of the whole assembly of Israel, the
words of this canticle, and finished it even 
to the end:
<br>
<b>Deuteronomy 32: 1-4<b/>
Hear, O ye heavens, the things I speak, let 
the earth give ear to the words of my 
mouth.
V. Let my doctrine gather as the rain, let my
speech distill as the dew, as a shower upon 
the herb.
V. And as drops upon the grass: because I 
will invoke the name of the Lord.
V. Give ye magnificence to our God: The 
works of God are perfect, and all his ways 
are judgments.
V. God is faithful and without any iniquity, he
is just and right.
<br>
Let us pray.
V. Let us kneel.
R. Arise.
O God, the exaltation of the humble, and 
the strength of the righteous, Who, by Thy 
holy servant Moses, wast pleased so to 
instruct Thy people by the singing of Thy 
sacred canticle, that the renewal of the law 
should be also our guidance: show forth 
Thy power to all the multitude of Gentiles 
justified by Thee, and by mitigating Thy 
terror grant them joy: that, all sins being 
blotted out by Thy remission, the threatened
vengeance may give way to salvation.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, Thy Son, 
Who lives and reigns with Thee in the unity 
of the Holy Spirit, God, forever and ever.
<br>
R. Amen.
