At that time, going out, he went, 
according to his custom, to the mount 
of Olives. And his disciples also 
followed him. And when he was come 
to the place, he said to them: Pray, lest 
ye enter into temptation. And he was 
withdrawn away from them a stone's 
cast; and kneeling down, he prayed, 
Saying: Father, if thou wilt, remove this 
chalice from me: but yet not my will, but
thine be done. And there appeared to 
him an angel from heaven, 
strengthening him. And being in an 
agony, he prayed the longer. And his 
sweat became as drops of blood, 
trickling down upon the ground. And 
when he rose up from prayer, and was 
come to his disciples, he found them 
sleeping for sorrow. And he said to 
them: Why sleep you? arise, pray, lest 
you enter into temptation. As he was 
yet speaking, behold a multitude; and 
he that was called Judas, one of the 
twelve, went before them, and drew 
near to Jesus, for to kiss him. And 
Jesus said to him: Judas, dost thou 
betray the Son of man with a kiss? And 
they that were about him, seeing what 
would follow, said to him: Lord, shall we
strike with the sword? And one of them 
struck the servant of the high priest, 
and cut off his right ear. But Jesus 
answering, said: Suffer ye thus far. And
when he had touched his ear, he 
healed him. And Jesus said to the chief
priests, and magistrates of the temple, 
and the ancients, that were come unto 
him: Are ye come out, as it were 
against a thief, with swords and clubs? 
When I was daily with you in the 
temple, you did not stretch forth your 
hands against me: but this is your hour,
and the power of darkness. And 
apprehending him, they led him to the 
high priest's house. But Peter followed 
afar off. And when they had kindled a 
fire in the midst of the hall, and were 
sitting about it, Peter was in the midst 
of them. Whom when a certain servant 
maid had seen sitting at the light, and 
had earnestly beheld him, she said: 
This man also was with him. But he 
denied him, saying: Woman, I know 
him not. And after a little while, another 
seeing him, said: Thou also art one of 
them. But Peter said: O man, I am not. 
And after the space, as it were of one 
hour, another certain man affirmed, 
saying: Of a truth, this man was also 
with him; for he is also a Galilean. And 
Peter said: Man, I know not what thou 
sayest. And immediately, as he was yet
speaking, the cock crew. And the Lord 
turning looked on Peter. And Peter 
remembered the word of the Lord, as 
he had said: Before the cock crow, thou
shalt deny me thrice. And Peter going 
out, wept bitterly. And the men that held
him, mocked him, and struck him. And 
they blindfolded him, and smote his 
face. And they asked him, saying: 
Prophesy, who is it that struck thee? 
And blaspheming, many other things 
they said against him. And as soon as it
was day, the ancients of the people, 
and the chief priests and scribes, cane 
together; and they brought him into 
their council, saying: If thou be the 
Christ, tell us. And he saith to them: If I 
shall tell you, you will not believe me. 
And if I shall also ask you, you will not 
answer me, nor let me go. But 
hereafter the Son of man shall be 
sitting on the right hand of the power of 
God. Then said they all: Art thou then 
the Son of God? Who said: You say 
that I am. And they said: What need we
any further testimony? for we ourselves
have heard it from his own mouth. And 
the whole multitude of them rising up, 
led him to Pilate. And they began to 
accuse him, saying: We have found 
this man perverting our nation, and 
forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, and
saying that he is Christ the king. And 
Pilate asked him, saying: Art thou the 
king of the Jews? But he answering, 
said: Thou sayest it. And Pilate said to 
the chief priests and to the multitudes: I
find no cause in this man. But they 
were more earnest, saying: He stirreth 
up the people, teaching throughout all 
Judea, beginning from Galilee to this 
place. But Pilate hearing Galilee, asked
if the man were of Galilee? And when 
he understood that he was of Herod's 
jurisdiction, he sent him away to Herod,
who was also himself at Jerusalem, in 
those days. And Herod, seeing Jesus, 
was very glad; for he was desirous of a 
long time to see him, because he had 
heard many things of him; and he 
hoped to see some sign wrought by 
him. And he questioned him in many 
words. But he answered him nothing. 
And the chief priests and the scribes 
stood by, earnestly accusing him. And 
Herod with his army set him at nought, 
and mocked him, putting on him a 
white garment, and sent him back to 
Pilate. And Herod and Pilate were 
made friends, that same day; for before
they were enemies one to another. And
Pilate, calling together the chief priests,
and the magistrates, and the people, 
Said to them: You have presented unto 
me this man, as one that perverteth the
people; and behold I, having examined 
him before you, find no cause in this 
man, in those things wherein you 
accuse him. No, nor Herod neither. For 
I sent you to him, and behold, nothing 
worthy of death is done to him. I will 
chastise him therefore, and release 
him. Now of necessity he was to 
release unto them one upon the feast 
day. But the whole multitude together 
cried out, saying: Away with this man, 
and release unto us Barabbas: Who, 
for a certain sedition made in the city, 
and for a murder, was cast into prison. 
And Pilate again spoke to them, 
desiring to release Jesus. But they 
cried again, saying: Crucify him, crucify
him. And he said to them the third time:
Why, what evil hath this man done? I 
find no cause of death in him. I will 
chastise him therefore, and let him go. 
But they were instant with loud voices, 
requiring that he might be crucified; and
their voices prevailed. And Pilate gave 
sentence that it should be as they 
required. And he released unto them 
him who for murder and sedition, had 
been cast into prison, whom they had 
desired; but Jesus he delivered up to 
their will. And as they led him away, 
they laid hold of one Simon of Cyrene, 
coming from the country; and they laid 
the cross on him to carry after Jesus. 
And there followed him a great 
multitude of people, and of women, 
who bewailed and lamented him. But 
Jesus turning to them, said: Daughters 
of Jerusalem, weep not over me; but 
weep for yourselves, and for your 
children. For behold, the days shall 
come, wherein they will say: Blessed 
are the barren, and the wombs that 
have not borne, and the paps that have
not given suck. Then shall they begin to
say to the mountains: Fall upon us; and
to the hills: Cover us. For if in the green
wood they do these things, what shall 
be done in the dry? And there were 
also two other malefactors led with him 
to be put to death. And when they were
come to the place which is called 
Calvary, they crucified him there; and 
the robbers, one on the right hand, and
the other on the left. And Jesus said: 
Father, forgive them, for they know not 
what they do. But they, dividing his 
garments, cast lots. And the people 
stood beholding, and the rulers with 
them derided him, saying: He saved 
others; let him save himself, if he be 
Christ, the elect of God. And the 
soldiers also mocked him, coming to 
him, and offering him vinegar, And 
saying: If thou be the king of the Jews, 
save thyself. And there was also a 
superscription written over him in 
letters of Greek, and Latin, and 
Hebrew: THIS IS THE KING OF THE 
JEWS. And one of those robbers who 
were hanged, blasphemed him, saying:
If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. 
But the other answering, rebuked him, 
saying: Neither dost thou fear God, 
seeing thou art condemned under the 
same condemnation? And we indeed 
justly, for we receive the due reward of 
our deeds; but this man hath done no 
evil. And he said to Jesus: Lord, 
remember me when thou shalt come 
into thy kingdom. And Jesus said to 
him: Amen I say to thee, this day thou 
shalt be with me in paradise. And it was
almost the sixth hour; and there was 
darkness over all the earth until the 
ninth hour. And the sun was darkened, 
and the veil of the temple was rent in 
the midst. And Jesus crying out with a 
loud voice, said: Father, into thy hands 
I commend my spirit. And saying this, 
he gave up the ghost. (Here kneel, and
pause a few moments.) Now the 
centurion, seeing what was done, 
glorified God, saying: Indeed this was a
just man. And all the multitude of them 
that were come together to that sight, 
and saw the things that were done, 
returned striking their breasts. And all 
his acquaintance, and the women that 
had followed him from Galilee, stood 
afar off, beholding these things. And 
behold there was a man named 
Joseph, who was a counselor, a good 
and just man, The same had not 
consented to their counsel and doings; 
of Arimathea, a city of Judea; who also 
himself looked for the kingdom of God. 
This man went to Pilate, and begged 
the body of Jesus. And taking him 
down, he wrapped him in fine linen, 
and laid him in a sepulchre that was 
hewed in stone, wherein never yet any 
man had been laid.
