Brethren, You gladly suffer the foolish: 
whereas yourselves are wise. For you 
suffer if a man bring you into bondage, 
if a man devour you, if a man take from
you, if a man be lifted up, if a man 
strike you on the face. I speak 
according to dishonor, as if we had 
been weak in the past. Wherein if any 
man dare (I speak foolishly), I dare 
also. They are Hebrews, so am I. They 
are Israelites, so am I. They are the 
seed of Abraham, so am I. They are the
ministers of Christ (I speak as one less 
wise), I am more: in many more labors, 
in prisons more frequently, in stripes 
above measure, in deaths often. Of the 
Jews five times did I receive forty 
stripes save one. Thrice was I beaten 
with rods, once I was stoned, thrice I 
suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I 
was in the depth of the sea: in 
journeying often, in perils of waters, in 
perils of robbers, in perils from my own 
nation, in perils from the Gentiles, in 
perils in the city, in perils in the 
wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils
from false brethren: in labor and 
painfulness, in much watching, in 
hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in 
cold and nakedness; besides those 
things which are without, my daily 
instance, the solicitude for all the 
Churches. Who is weak, and I am not 
weak? who is scandalized, and I am 
not on fire? If I must needs glory, I will 
glory of the things that concern my 
infirmity. The God and Father of Our 
Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed for 
ever, knoweth that I lie not. At 
Damascus the governor of the nation 
under Aretas, the king, guarded the city
of the Damascenes to apprehend me: 
and through a window in a basket was I
let down by the wall, and so escaped 
his hands. If I must glory (it is not 
expedient indeed) but I will come to 
visions and revelations of the Lord. I 
know a man in Christ above fourteen 
years ago, whether in the body I know 
not, or out of the body, I know not, God 
knoweth, such a one caught up to the 
third heaven. And I know such a man, 
whether in the body or out of the body, I
know not, God knoweth: that he was 
caught up unto paradise, and heard 
secret words which it is not granted to 
man to utter. For such a one I will glory:
but for myself I will glory nothing but in 
my infirmities. For though I should have
a mind to glory, I shall not be foolish: 
for I will say the truth: but I forbear, lest 
any man should think of me above that 
which he seeth in me, or anything he 
heareth from me. And lest the 
greatness of the revelations should 
exalt me, there was given me a sting of
my flesh, an angel of Satan, to buffet 
me. For which thing, thrice I besought 
the Lord that it might depart from me. 
And He said to me: my grace is 
sufficient for thee: for power is made 
perfect in infirmity. Gladly therefore will 
I glory in my infirmities, that the power 
of Christ may dwell in me.
