Christians! to the Paschal Victim offer 
your praises.
The Lamb the sheep redeemeth: 
Christ, sinless, reconcileth sinners to 
the Father.
Death and life contended in that conflict
stupendous: 
The Prince of Life, Who died, reigneth 
alive. 
Speak to us, Mary, what thou sawest 
on your way?
The tomb of Christ who now liveth: and 
likewise the glory of the Risen.
Angels attesting, the shroud and 
napkin resting.
Christ my hope is arisen: to Galilee He 
goeth before you.
We know that Christ is risen truly from 
the dead: have mercy on us, Thou 
Victor King. Amen. Alleluia.
At that time, Jesus showed Himself 
again to His disciples at the sea of 
Tiberias. And He showed Himself after 
this manner. There were together 
Simon Peter, and Thomas, who is 
called Didymus, and Nathánaël, who 
was of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of
Zebedee and two others of His 
disciples. Simon Peter saith to them, I 
go fishing. They say to him, We also 
come with thee. And they went forth, 
and entered into the ship: and that 
night they caught nothing. But when 
the morning was come, Jesus stood on
the shore; yet the disciples knew not 
that it was Jesus. Jesus therefore said 
to them, Children, have you any meat? 
They answered Him: No. He saith to 
them, Cast the net on the right side of 
the ship, and you shall find. They cast 
therefore, and now they were not able 
to draw it, for the multitude of fishes. 
That disciple therefore whom Jesus 
loved, said to Peter, it is the Lord. 
Simon Peter, when he heard that it was
the Lord, girt his coat about him (for he 
was naked) and cast himself into the 
sea. But the other disciples came in the
ship (for they were not far from the 
land, but as it were two hundred cubits)
dragging the net with fishes. As soon 
then as they came to land, they saw 
hot coals lying, and a fish laid thereon, 
and bread. Jesus saith to them, Bring 
hither of the fishes which you now have
caught. Simon Peter went up, and drew
the net to land, full of great fishes, one 
hundred and fifty-three. And although 
there were so many, the net was not 
broken. Jesus saith to them, Come, 
and dine. And none of them who were 
at meat durst ask Him, Who art Thou? 
knowing that it was the Lord. And Jesus
cometh and taketh bread, and giveth 
them, and fish in like manner. This is 
now the third time that Jesus was 
manifested to His disciples, after He 
was risen from the dead.
The Lord opened the doors of heaven, 
and rained down manna upon them to 
eat: He gave them the bread of 
Heaven: man ate the bread of angels, 
alleluia.
With the joys of Easter, O Lord, we 
offer to Thee the sacrifice by which Thy
Church is wonderfully fed and 
nourished. Through our Lord Jesus 
Christ, Thy Son, Who lives and reigns 
with Thee in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
God, forever and ever.
It is truly meet and just, right and for 
our salvation, at all times to praise 
Thee, O Lord, but more gloriously 
especially at this time above others 
when Christ our Pasch was sacrificed. 
For He is the true Lamb Who hath 
taken away the sins of the world: Who 
by dying hath destroyed our death: and
by rising again hath restored us to life. 
And therefore with Angels and 
Archangels, with Thrones and 
Dominations, and with all the hosts of 
the heavenly army, we sing the hymn of
Thy glory, evermore saying:
