In those days, an Angel of the Lord 
spoke to Philip, saying: Arise, go 
toward the south, to the way that goeth
down from Jerusalem to Gaza: this is 
desert. And rising up, he went; and 
behold a man of Ethiopia, an eunuch, 
of great authority under Candace, the 
queen of the Ethiopians, who had 
charge over all her treasures, had 
come to Jerusalem to adore. And he 
was returning, sitting in his chariot, and 
reading Isaias the prophet. And the 
Spirit said to Philip: Go near, and join 
thyself to this chariot. And Philip 
running thither, heard him reading the 
prophet Isaias; and he said: Thinkest 
thou that thou understandest what thou
readest? Who said: And how can I, 
unless some man show me? and he 
desired Philip that he would come up, 
and sit with him. And the place of the 
Scripture which he was reading was 
this: He was led as a sheep to the 
slaughter; and like a lamb without voice
before His shearer, so opened He not 
His mouth: in humility His judgment 
was taken away: His generation, who 
shall declare; for His life shall be taken 
from the earth? And the eunuch 
answering Philip said: I beseech thee, 
of whom doth the prophet speak this; of
himself, or of some other man? Then 
Philip opening his mouth, and 
beginning at this Scripture, preached 
unto him Jesus. And as they went on 
their way, they came to a certain water:
and the eunuch said: See here is water,
what doth hinder me from being 
baptized? And Philip said: If thou 
believest with all thy heart, thou 
mayest: and he answering, said: I 
believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of 
God. And he commanded the chariot to
stand still; and they went down into the 
water both Philip and the eunuch, and 
he baptized him. And when they were 
come out of the water, the Spirit of the 
Lord took away Philip, and the eunuch 
saw him no more: and he went on his 
way rejoicing. But Philip was found in 
Azotus, and passing through, he 
preached the Gospel to all the cities (till
he came to Cæsarea), the name of
the Lord Jesus Christ.
