In those days, Joseph said to his 
brothers: Listen to this dream which I 
had. We were binding sheaves in the 
field; my sheaf rose up and remained 
standing, while your sheaves gathered 
round and bowed down to my sheaf. 
His brothers answered: Are you to be 
our king? Are you to rule over us? And 
because of his dreams and words they 
hated him the more. He had another
dream which he also told to his 
brothers. I had another dream, he said.
The sun, the moon and eleven stars 
were worshiping me. When he told that 
to his father and his brothers, his father
reproved him. What is this dream that 
you have had? he said. Can it be that I 
and your mother and your brothers will 
come to bow to the ground before you?
So his brothers envied him, while his 
father pondered the matter. When his 
brothers had gone to pasture their 
father’s flocks at Sichem, Israel said to 
Joseph: Your brothers are pasturing the
flocks at Sichem; get ready, I will send 
you to them. Joseph answered: I am 
ready. Go, then, said Israel, and see if 
all is well with your brothers and with 
the flocks; and bring back a report to 
me. So he sent him from the valley of 
Hebron, and he came to Sichem. A 
man found Joseph wandering about in 
the fields and asked him: What are you
looking for? I am looking for my
brothers, he answered. Tell me, 
please, where they are pasturing. The 
man said: They have moved on from 
here, because I heard them say: Let us
go to Dothain. So Joseph went after his
brothers and found them in Dothain. 
They saw him in the distance, and 
before he drew near them, they plotted 
to kill him. They said to one another: 
Here comes that dreamer! Let us 
therefore kill him and throw him into a 
cistern; we can say that a wild beast 
devoured him. Let us see then what 
becomes of his dreams. But when 
Ruben heard of it, he tried to rescue 
him from them saying: We must not kill
him. Then he continued: Do not shed 
blood. Throw him into the cistern there 
in the desert, but do not lay a hand on 
him. His purpose was to rescue him 
from them and restore him to his father.
