Almighty and merciful God, Who didst 
endow blessed Jane Frances, burning 
with love of Thee, with an admirable 
strength of soul through all the paths of 
life in the way of perfection, and Who 
wast pleased to glorify Thy Church with
a new family by her means, grant to her
merits and prayers that we, who, 
conscious of our own infirmity, trust in 
Thy power, may, by the assistance of 
divine grace, conquer all obstacles 
which beset us. Through our Lord 
Jesus Christ, Thy Son, Who lives and 
reigns with Thee in the unity of the Holy
Spirit, God, forever and ever.
(An alternate Epistle for a widow is 
found at the end of this Mass)When one finds a worthy wife, her 
value is far beyond pearls. Her 
husband, entrusting his heart to her, 
has an unfailing prize. She brings him 
good, and not evil, all the days of her 
life. She obtains wool and flax and 
makes cloth with skillful hands. Like 
merchant ships, she secures her 
provisions from afar. She rises while it 
is still night, and distributes food to her 
household. She picks out a field to 
purchase; out of her earnings she 
plants a vineyard. she is girt about with 
strength, and sturdy are her arms. She 
enjoys the success of her dealings; at 
night her lamp is undimmed. She puts 
her hands to the distaff, and her fingers
ply the spindle. She reaches out her 
hands to the poor, and extends her 
arms to the needy. She fears not the 
snow for her household; all her charges
are doubly clothed. She makes her own
coverlets; fine linen and purple are her 
clothing. Her husband is prominent at 
the city gates as he sits with the elders 
of the land. She makes garments and 
sells them, and stocks the merchants 
with belts. She is clothed with strength 
and dignity, and she laughs at the days 
to come. She opens her mouth in 
wisdom, and on her tongue is kindly 
counsel. She watches the conduct of 
her household, and eats not her food in
idleness. Her children rise up and 
praise her; her husband, too, extols 
her: Many are the women of proven 
worth, but you have excelled them all. 
Charm is deceptive and beauty fleeting;
the woman who fears the Lord is to be 
praised. Give her a reward of her 
labors, and let her works praise her at 
the city gates.
