(by St. Thomas Aquinas)
Praise, O Sion, thy Savior, praise thy 
Leader and thy Shepherd in hymns and
canticles. As much as thou canst, so 
much darest thou, for He is above all 
praise, nor art thou able to praise Him 
enough.
Today there is given us a special theme
of praise, the Bread both living and life-
giving, which, it is not to be doubted, 
was given to the assembly of the 
brethren, twelve in number, at the table 
of the holy Supper.
Let our praise be full and sounding;
let the jubilations of the soul be joyous 
and becoming; for that solemn day is 
now being celebrated, on which is 
commemorated the first institution of 
this table.
At this table of the new King, the new 
Pasch of the New Law puts an end to 
the ancient Pasch. The new supplants 
the old, truth puts to flight the shadow,
day banishes night.
What Christ did at that Supper, the 
same He commanded to be done in 
remembrance of Him. Taught by His 
sacred precepts, we consecrate bread 
and wine into the Victim of salvation.
This is the dogma given to Christians,
that bread is changed into Flesh and 
wine into Blood. What thou dost not 
understand, what thou dost not see, a 
lively faith confirms in a supernatural 
manner.
Under different species in externals,
signs only, and not in reality, wondrous 
substances lie hidden. Flesh is food, 
Blood is drink: nevertheless Christ 
remains entire under each species.
By the recipient the whole is received;
He is neither cut, broken, nor divided.
One receives Him; a thousand receive 
Him: as much as the thousand 
receive, so much does the one 
receive; though eaten He is not 
diminished.
The good receive Him, the bad receive
Him, but with what unequal 
consequences of life or death. It is 
death to the unworthy, life to the 
worthy: behold then of a like reception,
how unlike may be the result!
When the Sacrament is broken, doubt 
not, but remember, that there is just as 
much hidden in a fragment, as there is 
in the whole. There is no division of the
substance, only a breaking of the 
species takes place, by which neither 
the state nor stature of the substance 
signified is diminished.
Lo, the Bread of Angels is made the 
food of earthly pilgrims: truly it is the 
Bread of children, let it not be cast to 
dogs. It was prefigured in types: when
Isaac was immolated, when the 
Paschal Lamb was sacrificed, when 
Manna was given to the fathers
O Good Shepherd, True Bread, O 
Jesus, have mercy on us: feed us and 
protect us: make us see good things in
the land of the living. Thou who 
knowest all things and canst do all 
things, who here feedest us mortals,
make us there be Thy guests, the co-
heirs, and companions of the heavenly 
citizens. Amen. Alleluia.
