At that time, Jesus passing by, saw a 
man who was blind from his birth: and 
His disciples asked Him, Rabbi who 
hath sinned, this man or his parents, 
that he should be born blind? Jesus 
answered, "Neither hath this man 
sinned nor his parents, but that the 
works of God should be made manifest
in him. I must work the works of Him 
that sent Me, whilst it is day; the night 
cometh when no man can work. As 
long as I am in the world I am the light 
of the world." When He had said these 
things, He spat on the ground, and 
made clay of the spittle, and spread the
clay upon his eyes, and said to him, 
"Go, wash in the pool of Silæ," (which 
is interpreted, Sent). He went therefore,
and washed, and he came seeing. The 
neighbors therefore and they who had 
seen him before that he was a beggar 
said, Is not this he that sat and 
begged? Some said, This is he. But 
others said, No, but he is like him. But 
he said, I am he. They said therefore to
him How were thy eyes opened? He 
answered, That man that is called 
Jesus, made clay, and anointed my 
eyes, and said to me, Go to the pool of 
Silæ, and wash: and I went, I washed, 
and I see. And they said to him, Where 
is He? He saith, I know not. They bring 
him that had been blind to the 
pharisees. Now it was the Sabbath 
when Jesus made the clay, and opened
his eyes. Again therefore the pharisees 
asked him how he had received his 
sight. But he said to them, He put clay 
upon my eyes, and I washed, and I 
see. Some therefore of the pharisees 
said, This man is not of God, who 
keepeth not the Sabbath. But others 
said, How can a man that is a sinner do
such miracles? And there was a 
division among them. They say 
therefore to the blind man again, What 
sayest thou of Him that hath opened 
thy eyes? And he said, He is a prophet.
The Jews then did not believe 
concerning him, that he had been blind 
and had received his sight, until they 
called the parents of him that had 
received his sight and asked them, 
saying, Is this your son, who you say 
was born blind? How then doth he now 
see? His parents answered them and 
said, We know that he is our son, and 
that he was born blind: but how he 
seeth we know not, or who hath 
opened his eyes we know not: ask 
himself; he is of age, let him speak for 
himself. These things his parents said, 
because they feared the Jews: for the 
Jews had already agreed among 
themselves, that if any man should 
confess Him to be Christ, he should be 
put out of the synagogue. Therefore did
his parents say, He is of age, ask him. 
They therefore called the man again 
that had been blind, and said to him, 
Give glory to God. We know that this 
man is a sinner. He said therefore to 
them, If He be a sinner, I know not; one
thing I know, that whereas I was blind, 
now I see. They then said to him, What 
did He to thee? How did He open thine 
eyes? He answered them, I have told 
you already and you have heard; why 
would you hear it again? will you also 
become His disciples? They reviled him
therefore, and said, Be thou His 
disciple: but we are the disciples of 
Moses. We know that God spoke to 
Moses; but as to this man, we know not
from whence He is. The man answered
and said to them, Why, herein is a 
wonderful thing that you know not from 
whence He is, and He hath opened my 
eyes. Now we know that God doth not 
hear sinners; but if a man be a server 
of God, and doth His will, him He 
heareth. From the beginning of the 
world it hath not been heard, that any 
man hath opened the eyes of one born 
blind. Unless this man were of God, He
could not do anything. They answered 
and said to him, Thou wast wholly born 
in sins, and dost thou teach us? And 
they cast him out. Jesus heard that 
they had cast him out; and when He 
had found him, He said to him, "Dost 
thou believe in the Son of God?" He 
answered and said, Who is He, Lord, 
that I may believe in Him? And Jesus 
said to him, "Thou hast both seen Him, 
and it is He that talketh with thee." And 
he said, I believe, Lord: 
<i>(Here all kneel.) </i>
and falling down he adored Him.
