In those days, in Babylon there lived a 
man named Joakim, who married a 
very beautiful and God-fearing woman,
Susanna, the daughter of Helcia; her 
pious parents had trained their 
daughter according to the Law of 
Moses. Joakim was very rich; he had a 
garden near his house, and the Jews 
had recourse to him often because he 
was the most respected of them all. 
That year, two elders of the people 
were appointed judges, of whom the 
Lord said, Wickedness had come out of
Babylon: from the elders who were to 
govern the people as judges. These 
men, to whom all brought their cases, 
frequented the house of Joakim. When 
the people left at noon, Susanna used 
to enter her husband’s garden for a 
walk. When the old men saw her enter 
every day for her walk, they began to 
lust for her. They suppressed their 
consciences; they would not allow their 
eyes to look to heaven, and did not 
keep in mind just judgments. One day, 
while they were waiting for the right 
moment, she entered the garden as 
usual, with two maids only. She 
decided to bathe, for the weather was 
warm. Nobody else was there except 
the two elders, who had hidden 
themselves and were watching her. 
Bring me oil and soap, she said to the 
maids, and shut the garden doors while
I bathe. As soon as the maids had left, 
the two old men got up and hurried to 
her. Look, they said, the garden doors 
are shut, and no one can see us; give 
in to our desire, and lie with us. If you 
refuse, we will testify against you that 
you dismissed your maids because a 
young man was here with you. I
am completely trapped, Susanna 
groaned. If I yield, it will be my death; if
I refuse, I cannot escape your power. 
Yet it is better for me to fall into your 
power without guilt than to sin before 
the Lord. Then Susanna shrieked, and 
the old men also shouted at her, as one
of them ran to open the garden doors. 
When the people in the house heard 
the cries from the garden, they rushed 
in by the side gate to see what had 
happened to her. At the accusations by
the old men, the servants felt very 
much ashamed, for never had any such
thing been said about Susanna. When 
the people came to her husband 
Joakim the next day, the two wicked 
elders also came, fully determined to 
put Susanna to death. Before all the 
people they ordered: Send for 
Susanna, the daughter of Helcia, the 
wife of Joakim. When she was sent for,
she came with her parents, children 
and all her relatives. All her relatives 
and the onlookers were weeping. In the
midst of the people the two elders rose 
up and laid their hands on her head. 
Through her tears she looked up to 
heaven, for she trusted in the Lord 
wholeheartedly. The elders made this 
accusation: As we were walking in the 
garden alone, this woman entered with 
two girls and shut the doors of the 
garden, dismissing the girls. A young 
man, who was hidden there, came and
lay with her. When we, in a corner of 
the garden, saw this crime, we ran 
toward them. We saw them lying 
together, but the man we could not 
hold, because he was stronger than 
we; he opened the doors and ran off. 
Then we seized this one and asked 
who the young man was, but she 
refused to tell us. We testify to this. The
assembly believed them, since they 
were elders and judges of the people, 
and they condemned her to death. But
Susanna cried aloud: O eternal God, 
You know what is hidden and are 
aware of all things before they come to 
be: You know that they have testified 
falsely against me. Here I am about to 
die, though I have done none of the 
things with which these wicked men 
have charged me. The Lord heard her 
prayer. As she was being led to 
execution, God stirred up the holy spirit
of a young boy named Daniel, and he 
cried aloud: I will have no part in the 
death of this woman. All the people 
turned and asked him, What is this you
are saying? He stood in their midst and
continued, Are you such fools, O 
Israelites! to condemn a woman of 
Israel without examination and without 
clear evidence? Return to court, for 
they have testified falsely against her. 
Then all the people returned in haste. 
And Daniel said to them: Separate 
these two from one another that I may 
examine them. After they were 
separated one from the other, he called
one of them and said: How you have 
grown evil with age! Now have your 
past sins come to term: passing unjust 
sentences, condemning the innocent, 
and freeing the guilty, although the Lord
says, ‘The innocent and the just you 
shall not put to death.’ Now, then, if you
were a witness, tell me under what tree
you saw them together. Under a mastic
tree. And Daniel said; Well have you 
lied against your own head, for the 
Angel of God, having received the 
sentence from Him shall split you in 
two. Putting him to one side, he 
ordered the other one to be brought. 
And Daniel said to him: O offspring of 
Chanaan, not of Juda, beauty has 
seduced you, lust has subverted your 
conscience. This is how you acted with 
the daughters of Israel, and in their fear
they yielded to you; but a daughter of 
Juda did not tolerate your wickedness. 
Now, then, tell me under what tree you 
surprised them together. Under an oak,
he said. Your fine lie has cost you also 
your head, said Daniel; for the Angel of 
god waits with a sword to cut you in two
so as to make an end of you both. The 
whole assembly cried aloud, blessing 
God, Who saves those that hope in 
Him. They rose up against the two 
elders, for by their own words Daniel 
had convicted them of perjury. They 
inflicted on them the penalty they had 
plotted to impose on their neighbor: 
they put them to death. Thus was 
innocent blood spared that day.
